	By definition, troubleshooting is a form of problem-solving often applied to repair failed products or processes on a machine or a system. It is a logical, systematic search for the source of a problem in order to solve it and make the product or process operational again. In general, troubleshooting is the identification of diagnoses of trouble in management flow of a system caused by a failure of some kind. In my course, Computer Engineering, we have this subject called Troubleshooting of Computer Systems. Through this subject, I have acquired more knowledge about computers and the troubleshooting processes. 
	I have learned that in troubleshooting any computer system, the first thing an individual should do is to identify the problem. You already know that there is a problem to your system, now we need to identify exactly what the problem is or what causes the system to fail. We need to gather maximum information to define the actual problem and provide the best possible solution by generating all possible solutions for us to be able to troubleshoot without causing further damage to the system. When identifying the problem, we must do a check-up on the simple variables that could affect the functionality of the system. Start with the most probable or obvious cause. For instance, when the time that our instructor let us troubleshoot a computer system and a raspberry pi. Upon troubleshooting the raspberry pi, the problem is that it fails to power on, so we had a theory that the probable cause is the power supplied to the raspberry pi. Having this theory in mind, we formulated a plan of action. What we did is just change the supply of the raspberry pi and to our surprise, it actually worked. Another simple troubleshooting practice is to check first the connections if the cables are properly attached or that the components are mounted properly and ensuring that the component used is compatible with the system. It is really necessary to conduct a simple troubleshooting procedure first before proceeding into more complicated and more advanced troubleshooting procedures. We tend to assume that the problem is in the main system itself or that it is a serious problem which causes us to proceed to a more advanced and complicated troubleshooting step forgetting the fact that it could be just a simple disconnection of the wire or a simple problem caused by our own carelessness. Also, in troubleshooting, if you are unsure of the cause for the system failure or you don’t know how to fix a specific system problem, consulting an expert would be the best possible choice of action since you may possibly inflect more damage to your system due to your lack of knowledge about it.
	Another thing that I learned through this subject is about computer maintenance. Computer maintenance describes various steps that will ensure that the system is running at an optimal level of functionality which will be used to avoid problems before they arise. It is better to try to keep a bad thing from happening than it is to fix the bad thing once it has happened. There are several preventive measures that I have learned including the installation of security software patches or anti-virus and anti-malware to avoid malware and viruses, installing Windows update to address bugs and issues in windows and to use safe downloading practices to protect the computer from being compromised. Also, it is recommended in computer maintenance to perform system back-ups in case of sudden system failure to ensure that vital data can be easily retrieved. It is also necessary to clean your computer and peripheral devices on a regular base with the use of appropriate cleaning materials to prevent damages dirt or dust build-ups.
	In this subject, it was more on reporting and lectures with a little hands-on experience. We were tasked individually to make a power point presentation on how to troubleshoot different parts of the computer like the microprocessor, motherboard, ram, power supply, etc. So basically, it was more on theories on how to troubleshoot. If I would give a suggestion, I would suggest that if possible to let the students experience more actual practice of how to troubleshoot. Rather than introducing new topics every meeting, I think I would learn better if after every topic is an actual demonstration of that certain topic. I mean, for me, having firsthand experience in troubleshooting is especially important because it allows us to learn better and gain a better understanding of troubleshooting computer systems. Truth be told, it was a little disappointing that the plan for the NCII examination wasn’t realized. I really liked the idea that we will get a chance to take part in the said examination since it could give us a new experience and a better understanding of computer systems. But then again, it is understandable since we don’t have enough time to make it happen. 
	Our instructor for this subject is Engr. Max Angelo Perin. We learned a lot of things with the help of our instructor. He gave activities and assignments with enough time to compile those things without actually pressuring us. He likes to interact with us and asks us if we have any questions or anything that we did not understand in this subject. He is really approachable so if we have any questions about our topic, it is easy to ask him. He would also give us advice on our other subjects since he has the knowledge and firsthand experience in dealing with those subjects. In summary, Sir Max, as what we call him, is a knowledgeable individual who deserves to be respected and appreciated.
	All in all, I have learned a lot of things throughout the course of the term with the subject, Troubleshooting of Computer Systems. I could say that it was a great experience. From knowing the parts of the computer system to its proper maintenance to troubleshooting and other information that is really essential for my course.
